By this map, you can see that AWS has a global infrastructure.
So all of the dots represent regions.
The blue represents regions that are already here now up and running,
and the orange represents regions that are coming soon.
So there's a region here in Northern California that was
launched in 2009 that has three availability zones,
and I'll talk about what those are in a moment.
There's a region here on the East Coast Northern Virginia
launched in 2006, six availability zones.
There's one here in London launched in 2016 with three availability zones,
one down here in Sydney Australia launched in 2012 with three availability zone.
So there really is a global infrastructure in
place to support you as you build your applications.
So a region.
This is a geographic location that has availability zones or AZs.
Typically, a minimum of two AZs exist in a region,
and you typically select your region to reduce latency and cost.
So for example, going back to that map.
If all of your customers are in China,
it doesn't make sense for you to deploy your application to the West Coast region,
because that's high latency.
Regions are isolated and independent,
and resources aren't automatically replicated across them,
you have to specifically set that up.
I remember once when I started using AWS,
I deploy my application in the Northern Virginia region.
For some reason when I went back into the console,
my region had defaulted to
the Northern California region and I could not find my application.
So that was a lesson learned that resources don't replicate across the regions.
Now, an availability zone is an isolated location within a geographic region.
You can think of it as a physical datacenter within a specific region.
So there are multiple datacenters in a given region.
So failure in one availability zone doesn't impact another availability zone.
So failures are independent.
There's also this concept called Edge Locations that
we'll talk about more when we talk about a content delivery network,
but an Edge Location is a mini datacenter and it's used solely
to cache large data files closer to a user's location.
Like I said, it's used in content delivery to serve up
static content as quickly as possible to reduce latency.